welcome back to fifth gear now with the
global recession and everything a 70,000
pounds super saloon won't be for
everyone
so here's Johnny with something a little
more affordable
to be honest calling this affordable is
a little bit like calling the BMW m5 a
tad nippy there's already do it any
justice at all because when this
brand-new car comes out next year it's
been a cost and only seven and a half
thousand pounds this tiny money saver is
called the me spelt with two eyes don't
you know and it's a brand new city card
for me say it and to find out how it's
so cheap and whether or not you should
actually buy one I've come to the ultra
chaotic city streets of Barcelona let's
start at the front one of the reasons
why the me is so affordable is because
of its sheer simplicity under the bonnet
you see you haven't got any expensive
turbo charges or superchargers
cutting-edge diesel or electric power
know all you've got is three piddly
little pistons living inside an engine
which is just two hand spans long Park
the three cylinder
the little engine comes in two flavors
one is 59 horsepower this one and the
other one is 74 which sounds like a
pathetic amount of forces but you got to
remember that this car only weighs 875
kilos that's unheard of in this day and
age and although it's not a 62 and 14.4
second it does feel quicker than that
all these do over 60 miles to the gallon
and they cost no more than 20 quid a
year to tax so they keep things sheep
even after you've bought one that's the
engine end or what else keeps the costs
down
well the whole car has been designed
much like a piece of Ikea furniture and
by that I don't mean you have to
assemble it yourself as one of those
IKEA allen keys what I mean is the
entire design philosophy has been to
keep the car as simple but effective as
possible so there are no expensive to
make shapes on the bodywork the boot
handle is just a plastic button and
while most cars have four parking
sensors the me has three there's just
one cutting edge extra a magic laser
oh i geszti not there is a laser in this
car it's just up there next to the
rear-view mirror and what it does is it
looks down the road and it detects the
speed of the car in front of you and
below 90 miles an hour if it thinks
there's going to be a crunch an imminent
crash it will apply the anchors for you
it doesn't look much but having such a
high-tech feature on such a cut-price
car is incredible but does it actually
work well imagine the meze inflatable
friend here is a real stationary car
Here I am I'm a typical city driver I'm
hassled I'm stressed I'm gonna text my
wife on the phone to tell her I'm coming
home and I'm just gonna be quite bad at
driving I'm gonna be so distracted that
I don't even break when I approach the
stationary car in theory the me should
stop all by itself and text and text I'm
not paying attention and oh that was
good of course it's not an excuse for
bad driving but it is very reassuring my
wife I haven't crashed
now there's one last way in which Sarah
made this car so cheap and that's
because it shares its bits with other
cars
the VW art and the Skoda Citigo are
identical underneath say out Skoda and
VW are all part of the same company and
they keep costs down by sharing bits all
three cars go on sale next year with
just a few hundred quid between them
what I really dig about the me is the
fact that the driving experiences -
pleasantly fingertip light they've just
executed it very well it's a simple
recipe it's kind of like Jamie Oliver
making scrambled eggs it is just
scrambled eggs on toast but Jamie
Oliver's made it so it's a bit nicer
so to say at me it's cheap because it's
simple and that's also why it's so good